README.md, before:

# UMA Demo Server

An example UMA VASP server implementation using Typescript.

## Running the server

Configuration parameters (API keys, etc.) and information on how to set them can be found in `src/UmaConfig.ts`.
To run locally on your machine, from the root directory of this repo, run:

```bash
npm run start
```

This will run the server on port 3104. You can change the port by setting the `PORT` environment variable:

```bash
PORT=8080 npm run start
```

To set all of the config variables at once, you can do something like:

```bash
PORT=8080 \
LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<api token id> \
LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<api token secret> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_NODE_ID=<your node ID> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_RECEIVER_USER=bob \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PUBKEY=<encryption public key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PRIVKEY=<encryption private key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PUBKEY=<signing public key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PRIVKEY=<signing private key hex> \
npm run start
```

## Running Test Queries

First, we'll start two instances of the server, one on port 8080 and one on port 8081 (in separate terminals):

Terminal 1:

```bash
# First set up config variables. You can also save these in a file or export them to your environment.
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<client_id>
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret>
# etc... See UmaConfig.ts for the full list of config variables.

# Now start the server on port 8080
$ PORT=8080 npm run start
```

Terminal 2:

```bash
# First set up the variables as above. If you want to be able to actually send payments, use a different account.
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<client_id_2>
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret_2>
# etc... See UmaConfig.ts for the full list of config variables.

# Now start the server on port 8081
$ PORT=8081 npm run start
```

Now, you can test the full uma flow like:

```bash
# First, call to vasp1 to lookup Bob at vasp2. This will return currency conversion info, etc. It will also contain a 
# callback ID that you'll need for the next call
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/api/umalookup/\$bob@localhost:8081

# Now, call to vasp1 to get a payment request from vasp2. Replace the last path component here with the callbackUuid
# from the previous call. This will return an invoice and another callback ID that you'll need for the next call.
$ curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/umapayreq/52ca86cd-62ed-4110-9774-4e07b9aa1f0e?amount=100&currencyCode=USD"

# Now, call to vasp1 to send the payment. Replace the last path component here with the callbackUuid from the payreq
# call. This will return a payment ID that you can use to check the status of the payment.
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/sendpayment/e26cbee9-f09d-4ada-a731-965cbd043d50
```

## Building with Docker

To build the docker image, run:

```bash
docker build -t uma-vasp .
```

To run the docker image, run:

```bash
docker run \
-p 8080:8080 \
-e LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<client_id> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_NODE_ID=<node_id> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_RECEIVER_USER=<receiver_user> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PUBKEY=<encryption_pubkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PRIVKEY=<encryption_privkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PUBKEY=<signing_pubkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PRIVKEY=<signing_privkey> \
uma-vasp
```

### Pushing to Google Cloud Run

To push to Google Cloud Run, first build the image as above, but tag it with the Google Cloud Run URL:

```bash
docker build -t gcr.io/<project_id>/uma-vasp .
```

Then, push the image to Google Cloud Run:

```bash
docker push gcr.io/<project_id>/uma-vasp
```

Finally, deploy the image to Google Cloud Run:

```bash
gcloud run deploy --image gcr.io/<project_id>/uma-vasp --platform managed
```

You'll need to set the environment variables in the Google Cloud Run console or
via the command line. Using secrets is recommended. See
<https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/configuring/services/secrets#access-secrets> for
more information.

Commit message:

Clean up the construction of the server for configuration.

README.md, after:

# UMA Demo Server

An example UMA VASP server implementation using Typescript.

## Running the server

Configuration parameters (API keys, etc.) and information on how to set them can be found in `src/UmaConfig.ts`.
To run locally on your machine, from the root directory of this repo, run:

```bash
npm run start
```

This will run the server on port 3104. You can change the port by setting the `PORT` environment variable:

```bash
PORT=8080 npm run start
```

To set all of the config variables at once, you can do something like:

```bash
PORT=8080 \
LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<api token id> \
LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<api token secret> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_NODE_ID=<your node ID> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_RECEIVER_USER=bob \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PUBKEY=<encryption public key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PRIVKEY=<encryption private key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PUBKEY=<signing public key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PRIVKEY=<signing private key hex> \
LIGHTSPARK_UMA_OSK_NODE_SIGNING_KEY_PASSWORD=<osk node signing key password> \
npm run start
```

## Running Test Queries

First, we'll start two instances of the server, one on port 8080 and one on port 8081 (in separate terminals):

Terminal 1:

```bash
# First set up config variables. You can also save these in a file or export them to your environment.
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<client_id>
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret>
# etc... See UmaConfig.ts for the full list of config variables.

# Now start the server on port 8080
$ PORT=8080 npm run start
```

Terminal 2:

```bash
# First set up the variables as above. If you want to be able to actually send payments, use a different account.
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<client_id_2>
$ export LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret_2>
# etc... See UmaConfig.ts for the full list of config variables.

# Now start the server on port 8081
$ PORT=8081 npm run start
```

Now, you can test the full uma flow like:

```bash
# First, call to vasp1 to lookup Bob at vasp2. This will return currency conversion info, etc. It will also contain a 
# callback ID that you'll need for the next call
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/api/umalookup/\$bob@localhost:8081

# Now, call to vasp1 to get a payment request from vasp2. Replace the last path component here with the callbackUuid
# from the previous call. This will return an invoice and another callback ID that you'll need for the next call.
$ curl -X GET "http://localhost:8080/api/umapayreq/52ca86cd-62ed-4110-9774-4e07b9aa1f0e?amount=100&currencyCode=USD"

# Now, call to vasp1 to send the payment. Replace the last path component here with the callbackUuid from the payreq
# call. This will return a payment ID that you can use to check the status of the payment.
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/sendpayment/e26cbee9-f09d-4ada-a731-965cbd043d50
```

## Configuring the server

The server is configured via environment variables and takes several configurable interface implementations when it is constructed. See `src/startServer.ts` for an example of how to construct and start the server. You can create your own start script or modify the existing one to inject your own implementations of the following interfaces:

- `PublicKeyCache`: A cache for other vasps' public keys retrieved via the UMA SDK. The default implementation uses an in-memory cache, but you can use a database or other cache if you need persistence.
- `SendingVaspRequestCache`: A cache for storing the state of a payment request flows on the sending side. The default implementation uses an in-memory cache, but you should use a database or other cache for real persistence.
- `UserService`: A service for looking up user information and preferences.
- `InternalLedgerService`: A service for looking up and changing your own internal ledger information on a per-user basis. It is notified when payments start and complete.
- `ComplianceService`: A service which handles compliance checks, risk assessment, and travel rule information.

## Building with Docker

To build the docker image, run:

```bash
docker build -t uma-vasp .
```

To run the docker image, run:

```bash
docker run \
-p 8080:8080 \
-e LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_ID=<client_id> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_API_TOKEN_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_NODE_ID=<node_id> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_RECEIVER_USER=<receiver_user> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PUBKEY=<encryption_pubkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_ENCRYPTION_PRIVKEY=<encryption_privkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PUBKEY=<signing_pubkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_SIGNING_PRIVKEY=<signing_privkey> \
-e LIGHTSPARK_UMA_OSK_NODE_SIGNING_KEY_PASSWORD=<osk_node_signing_key_password> \
uma-vasp
```

### Pushing to Google Cloud Run

To push to Google Cloud Run, first build the image as above, but tag it with the Google Cloud Run URL:

```bash
docker build -t gcr.io/<project_id>/uma-vasp .
```

Then, push the image to Google Cloud Run:

```bash
docker push gcr.io/<project_id>/uma-vasp
```

Finally, deploy the image to Google Cloud Run:

```bash
gcloud run deploy --image gcr.io/<project_id>/uma-vasp --platform managed
```

You'll need to set the environment variables in the Google Cloud Run console or
via the command line. Using secrets is recommended. See
<https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/configuring/services/secrets#access-secrets> for
more information.
